---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-21
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Javascript
---

Software engineering is somewhat of a foreign concept to me because it's such a broad term. I'm interested in it but I'm not sure what's possible and what's not. There are so many projects you could do as a software engineer and that's  overwhelming for me. When something is overwhelming, I tend to push it off to the side (a bad habit, I know) and that results in me procrastinating and being unprepared. This habit is something I want to change so I hope that by taking this class, I can break it. 

Before coming to this class, I did not know Javascript at all. The only language I'm comfortable in is Java because that's what I've been studying and practicing since high school. I have some experience with C and C++ but I wouldn't say I'm comfortable in it yet. After finishing assignment E06, I have a grasp of the basics of Javascript but I hope by the end of this class, I can confidently say "I know Javascript" and be able to back up my words. 

I hope to develop a lot of things for the future. A big thing I want to do is start creating projects for myself (and my portfolio). I really want to start making things I'm proud of but I always find that starting new things is hard because I am terrified of failure. I feel that this fear is always holding me back from reaching my full potential so I think all the WOD's and projects from this class will help stop me from fearing failure. Another skill I hope to develop is to be an effective communicator. This is because I'm not very good at explaining my ideas concisely and that can get in the way of solving problems when I'm in a group. 

